# Introduction to tmap for Mapping

## Code by: Hunter Warick

## Description
This tutorial introduces how to create various types of maps using the `tmap` package in R. It covers the following key aspects:

1. **Setting up the environment**
2. **Creating interactive and static maps**
3. **Handling raster and vector data**
4. **Plotting and customizing maps**
5. **Exporting maps**

The code includes the following secgtions:
1. Base Map View Mode 
This code section demonstrates how to create an interactive base map using tmap.

2. Base Map Plot Mode
This code section explains how to create static maps from different basemap types.

3. OSM Shape Files
In this code section, we query OpenStreetMap data for boundaries, such as protected areas, and create polygons.

4. Map of Israel
This code section demonstrates how to create a map of Israel with borders and additional geographic features like the Dead Sea.

5. Plotting with Custom Features
Create maps with customized features, such as boundaries, labels, and compass.

6. Exporting Maps
After creating a map, you can save it as an image.

7. GPS Data Visualization
Visualize GPS tracking data by plotting bird movement on the map.

8. Raster Data and Plotting
Query raster data for mapping and convert to a raster object for use.

9. Multiple Plots
To create multiple plots on the same map, this code section shows how to use facets.

## Requirements for running the tmap_tutorial.R script
1. Stable internet connection
2. The file Mapping_Tutorial_FUNCTIONS.R
3. A picture of the bird you want to plot, for example pink_warbler.png

## Usage Instructions

1. Install the necessary R packages (if not already installed):
```r
library(osmdata)     # Query vector data
library(OpenStreetMap) # Query raster data
library(tmap)         # Plot maps
library(tmaptools)    # tmap extension
library(rnaturalearth) # Download maps of other countries
library(sf)           # Manipulate borders
library(raster)       # Convert OpenStreetMap objects to raster
library(rnaturalearthhires)	# For the country boarders
# library(dplyr)       # Manipulate sf objects
```
2. Ensure that your environment has access to the required R files:
```r
tmap_tutorial.R
Mapping_Tutorial_FUNCTIONS.R
disputed_boundaries.R
IMS_function.R
```
3. Set your working directory:
Line 6: path_to_working_directory <- "PATH/TO/YOUR/t_map/FOLDER/t_map"

4. Set the path in which you want to save the generated Map:
Line 7: path_to_save_the_map <- "PATH/TO/SAVE/THE/MAP"

5. Run the script tmap_tutorial.R

6. Check the output: verify the results generated by the code, such as data files, plots, or logs.
